
Tom hardly made it in the doorway before Jackalope shut it behind them. Locking it, she turned around to face him. She seemed very excited right now as she took off her bulky chest plate, moving to the bracers, when some kind of realization seemingly dawned on her and she stopped mid-motion. She stood there for a second before looking up at him.
"Uhm… Tom… do humans… you know?" Tom guessed his low red blood count was the only reason he wasn't turning redder than Baron right about now. In front of him was what he could best describe as a well-tuned killing machine with curves like a tv advert; she might be lacking in the boobs department but she was still deep-chested. The thick muscles that drove her wings actually giving her a rather soft and very comfy chest, as he had learned earlier today.
Her thighs were thick and muscular, leading into far sleeker yet still powerful looking lower legs ending in those fearsome-looking clawed feet. She was an elegant predator, not as sleek as Sapphire, or as dainty as Fengi, but her neck was still long and almost delicate-looking, the thick leathery skin likely hiding the muscles bulging beneath. Her stomach was flat and taut with a narrow waist pinching in above those rather wide hips giving her some impressive curves. All in all, she was just hitting all the right parts of Tom's inner caveman.
He dropped all the gear he had been carrying, beginning to undo what armor pieces he still had on, not taking his eyes off her. Goddamn, she was pretty. How could one look so powerful yet sleek, she was truly built for purpose, yet right now she looked so innocent as she looked at him almost worriedly, like she was afraid she had made a mistake.
That expression quickly faded as he let his eyes wander, still unbuckling pieces, her face growing downright devious at the confirmation. She resumed her work, removing the bracers then the greaves, even her crown. It was so rare to see her without it. It was almost like someone taking off their glasses in fact.
She took a step forward, having finished removing her armor first, getting in close. Tom hurried up, letting the last few pieces drop to the floor as she ran her fingers through his beard and hair with a snicker, playing with it a bit, before running her fingers down the sides of his face and neck.
"God, you're soft-skinned, smooth like silk," she let out, sounding wistful. "I'm almost scared I'll scratch you."
Tom managed to unbuckle the plates covering his thighs, letting them fall to the ground as he leaned into her, letting his hand run down the small of her back, looking up at her friendly face. Ears perked and smile wide. He let his hands run down further, going under the armored skirt, grabbing her ass. The skin was the same tough leathery affair, and there was no blubber to be found here either. It was firm yet supple muscle, giving nicely under a little squeeze.
"Yeep," Jacky squeaked before looking down at him, flicking out her forked tongue"Yeah, you scored just fine on that point." The confidence truly back in her voice, almost as if compensating for the girly squeak. Tom knew she was more than right on that front. Even if he had definitely improved in the time since coming here, calling him a peak specimen was rather far from the truth. If she wasn't a dragonette in peak condition though, he had no clue what one might look like.
She kept her hands high, moving to fondle his ears "You can't move them at all can you?" She questioned, looking closer. Tom did his best to try and wiggle them a bit, causing Jackalope to break out laughing. Moving her head back bringing it lower until they were at eye level. She began flicking her ears around, still giggling.
"Happy, sad, angry, scared, annoyed," she went through them a few times, even moving them independently of each other. Tom almost forgot where his hands were as she just looked so damn hilarious. "Interested," she finished, both ears swinging forward, tips raised as if she was listening to what was in front of her.
She laid her arms on his shoulders, guiding him around until he had his back to the bed. Then she just took a few small steps forwards until he was backed up against it. With a slight shunt to his shoulders, he was forced to sit down on the bedside, looking up at her. She took a step back, unbuckling the thick armored skirt and dropping it to the ground, leaving just her undergarments.
"Come now, I'm not the only one for the show here," she went, putting a hand on her hip. Tom had gotten rather enamoured by the show as he started fiddling with the buttons of his shirt.
"All that fancy stuff and you still use buttons," Jacky remarked, shaking her head slightly. By the time Tom made it all the way down the shirt his hands were not entirely steady anymore. Her patience had clearly run out too. Her tail swishing from side to side, like an annoyed cat, as she kneeled before him. She aptly unbuckled his belt as Tom got the trouser button open undoing the zipper. "And here you have one of those zipper things," Jacky remarked, shaking her head before she simply grabbed the trouser legs and yanked them off, nearly pulling Tom off the bed.
She grabbed him by lower legs, pushing him back and throwing his legs onto the bed. Tom was not averse to being on the bottom, but he had never tried being thrown around the bedroom like this. It was a rather strange feeling, Jackalope was strange, everything was strange. It was exciting!
She moved onto the bed above him as his hungry hands went to grab at her sides again, sliding down to her ass and thighs. She guided his hands to the rim of her panties, pulling them down to the crook of her knees. Tom wanted to look, but she was currently lying down on top of him. That was the one part he had not yet seen on a dragonette, so he was rather anxious on the subject. She moved around, eventually kicking them off to the side. Moving back towards the foot of the bed, she grabbed his undies pulling them down revealing a very stiff tool.
She stopped, looking at his erect member tilting her head, eyes wide in wonder. "That's different… I forgot about that… It has a beard?" She giggled out having a play with it, though being very careful with her clawed fingers. "I thought it would be red too," she continued, snickering a bit as she moved her head around as if she was looking at an interesting beetle on the ground. "Not small either," she finished looking up at him with the slyest smile he had yet seen giving him a wink. Tom was fairly convinced he was at the very best average. So either he felt sorry for Balethon or humans might be the lucky ones in that department. either that or Jacky was lying to make him feel better of course.
She sat up onto her knees above him as he grabbed her thighs. She daintily guided his cock into what looked very recognizably like a vagina, apart from being very deep cobalt blue of course. She was lit up from behind by the evening sun shining dimly into the room, it was quite the silhouette she made as she towered above him. She gently lowered herself, Tom restraining a groan as the head struggled to push inside. 'Jesus fuck she is tight,' he thought to himself. It took some work as she moved back and forth, growing frustrated at the lack of success. He eventually grabbed his dick forcing just the tip inside, eliciting a strained moan from Jackalope.
He had feared that she would be ice cold inside; she was definitely cool, though it was more of a room temperature deal. She didn't move at all, seemingly locked in place as Tom looked up. Her eyes were closed, an expression looking more like pain on her face as she moved her head around, eventually looking to the ceiling as she began slowly lowering herself a bit further.
His hands were back on her thighs and ass and he could feel them quivering. Her breathing growing erratic as she began tentatively to move up and down just the tiniest bit, eliciting fresh groans and even what felt like a deep purr. That was one hell of a sensation, her insides vibrating with a deep hollow thrum. He tightened his grip, trying to draw her down further. She eventually relented, her now shaking thighs lowering her down a bit further with each slow and careful motion as she ever so slowly began bobbing up and down.
This was absolute bliss, he moved his hands to the narrow of her waist, guiding her up and down, trying to push her to go faster and further. She was being extremely careful though; judging by her expression she was in no rush as she ever so slowly went deeper and deeper.
He worried perhaps she wouldn't be deep enough, but his fears appeared unfounded, as she finally made it near enough to the full length. She writhed and twisted on him, which only made it feel better as her insides clutched at his dick. The sounds she was making growing ever stranger, ranging into not only that deep purr, but little girly gasps and a kind of growl of pleasure as she breathed out, tongue hanging freely, looking like she savored every moment of this.
It had taken minutes to even get to the point where she was finally using what was available, even if she was still being very gentle. Her eyes finally opened, looking down at him as she leaned forwards, putting her arms on his shoulders and resting the tip of her snout against his lips. Tom kissed at her snout as she opened her maw slightly, her forked tongue coming out to play. It was only for a bit though, as she eventually lowered her chest down, putting her shoulders against his, her head pushing into the pillow next to him as she continued to bob up and down.
His hands were still on her waist trying to pull her down with each stroke and trying to make her go faster. Her back swaying up and down as he did so, she was flexible like a damn ballerina or something. He had seen what she could do in the air, snaking around when she was chasing Fengi. She might be larger and bulkier but she could kiss her own toes without breaking a sweat.
She was also gaining confidence ever so slowly, despite sounding like she was fighting for her life. She was panting and gasping right in his ear as she pushed her face into the pillow. She didn't even have it in her to let out the steady purr anymore, instead just giving out a few random bursts here and there. She was clearly trying her hardest, stepping it up to something more akin to a normal speed. The added excitement of Tom beckoning her on was seemingly too much though as she spasmed, locking in place. Tom let out a gasp as she tightened too damn near painful levels. Her entire body was twitching as she let out the cutest little shriek into the pillow.
He embraced her, wrapping his arms around her back and holding her gently for the few seconds it took before she loosened up again, being careful to avoid the wound on her back. She pressed her forehead against his, arching her neck.
"Hu... H... Holy shit!" she finally let out between labored breaths.
"You can say that twice," Tom echoed, despite her not being able to hear him. She gently pulled free, drawing a sharp breath of discomfort as he slid out of her. She likely needed a little bit before continuing. She rolled over onto the bed beside him, letting out a deep sigh, staring at the ceiling for a few seconds, her chest heaving away, before looking down at herself.
"Wait didn't you? Isn't there supposed to be... you know?" She went, looking over to him clearly confused and skirting around the subject. Tom just smiled at her, raising his eyebrows twice. "Oh this is gonna be the best night ever, it feels like I'm on fire inside, you damn near burn you know," Jacky let out looking back to the ceiling raising her arms above her head in triumph.
Tom didn't want to give her a bit too long to cool off, so to speak. Towards the end she had actually started feeling warmer inside, and as he started groping around, exploring all her curves, she felt hotter too. He was not going to let that opportunity go to waste. It was clear she had limits, but it was time to find them and perhaps push them a little bit. She was the local daredevil after all. As she laid there looking like she was still seeing stars he flipped her over onto her chest. Jacky let out a surprised squeak, looking back at him with a coy expression.
"Oh fuck me," she stated, still sounding short of breath. Tom wasn't sure if that was an order or an observation of her current situation. She had stopped quivering, but she was clearly still not entirely recovered from the last round. Still, 'work the iron while it's hot' and all that.
"Happy to oblige," he answered with a chuckle, knowing she couldn't hear him. He got her up onto her knees, chest still on the bed, ass sticking up. The tail was an interesting problem. It was thick at the base, slowly tapering the further along you went, though it too felt muscular while also being nice and soft to the touch. He ended up guiding it under his armpit to keep it out of the way as he caressed her back and hips, being careful to avoid the wound on her back where the bolt had hit right below her right wing-shoulder.
For the time being, he elected to be gentle as he maneuvered his dick inside. It was still a tricky proposition, but when it slid in she was indeed warmer than before. He began slowly pressing in further down the ridiculously tight passage, Jacky responding with all the right noises as she again buried her face in the pillow. The difficulty of entry was not down to any lack of lubrication though, as she was very wet and almost silky inside. He slowly made his way all the way inside, tentatively testing the waters.
The purring returned as he began stroking nice and gentle. Pressing down on her back, she didn't fight it, bowing down to the point her ass was sticking damn near straight up. Back home that would be considered one hell of a pro move. Tom was under no illusions though as to Jacky's experience level though, despite her trying to act confident he was sure this was mostly alien territory for her. For the time being, she appeared to be holding it together as he started getting into his stride still doing his best to be gentle with her. He wasn't entirely successful though as he started getting carried away.
"By Itova you... are a... demon!" She managed to get out before she was reduced to a gibbering mess, clawing at the bed frame leaving some impressive scratchmarks. She sounded almost ready to cry, some of the sounds indicating she already was. Tom slowed down a  bit, worried it might be getting too much, Jackalope slammed her arm into the mattress in protest. "No keep… going!"
Well, he certainly wasn't gonna need to be told that twice looking down at the magnificent woman before him. That long slender neck being flanked by those beautiful metallic horns which almost looked like handlebars now he thought of it. "Time to see just how flexible you are," he let out, more for his own sake as he leaned forward grabbing her by the horns, pulling at her head. She almost curved into a C, her chest still pressed against the bed as he picked the pace back up, being less careful.
Turning her head to the side he could see tears in her half-open eyes, pupils wide as she looked back at him. Her mouth was agape panting as hard as she could, tongue hanging out to the side. He was going with full strokes now, savoring the insane sensation as he worked away. Her gasps and squeaks not helping his case as he finally felt the end approaching. He let go of the horns, her head slamming into the pillow, as he instead grabbed her by the hips to give her the final sprint, crossing his fingers he wouldn't break her.
The purring had stopped, he could feel her fighting to hang on as he drove home hard again and again, slamming his dick in as deep as it would go. Jacky let out what gasps she could manage with each thrust. It was finally Tom's turn to make some noises as he fired his load down her insides, trying with all his weight to force his cock deeper inside as her moans rose to a fever pitch, culminating in a scream into the pillow.
Tom just about managed to get his dick out before he let himself collapse on top of her. He felt more than a little light-headed, heaving for breath himself as the adrenaline quickly wore off. The two of them just lay there for some time, both panting for breath, Jackalope still twitching and had started hyperventilating in short quick breaths. Tom wanted to tell her just how amazing that had been, though for now kissing her neck and snuggling up against the huntress would have to do. She didn't respond as she continued panting, otherwise unmoving. Kissing her neck she was hot, maybe even hotter than him right now.
Tom got up, still lightheaded and breathing heavy, and grabbed his water bottle from beside the bed. He poured some of the cold water over her neck and upper back, and began caressing her face trying to calm her down enough to stop hyperventilating. It worked eventually as she slowed down enough for him to try and make her drink. It took a bit before he got her to swallow a few gulps of water. Her eyes eventually focusing as she returned to the real world, looking around confused.
"That was insanity," she finally got out after what felt like an eternity as she got her breathing under control taking the water bottle taking deep drafts. "What the fuck was that?!"
Tom wanted to reply 'A good dicking' so badly, but instead just chuckled, scooting up beside her pulling the wing down over him like a blanket. He could feel the heat radiating off her now as he put his arms around her. They both needed a cool-off period after that one that was for sure. Hell, he had fucked her nearly unconscious and possibly near to a heat stroke, so she damn well deserved it.
After a while playing the small spoon and gulping down more water, Jacky finally turned around to face him as they laid there, eyes still wide, with a shit-eating grin now smeared across her face. "We need to do this more often." Tom just replied with a nod, matching her grin. He definitely agreed to that, even if he was damn impressed she hardly even seemed scared at what had just happened. It had been more than enough to give him a fright "Think they heard us?"
Thinking back, Tom had to conclude she had been very far from silent… 'Fuck'em worth it,' he mused to himself. A statement he wholeheartedly believed in.
"Nah, they drank too and had things to do," Jackalope dismissed, clearly not worried. Tom was guessing she didn't know just how loud she had been. Granted, he had never seen someone pushed that hard during sex, so being quiet was asking too much of her. She had sounded so damn cute too.
The two of them spent a bit more time cuddling before Jackalope pulled back, getting off the bed. Tom admired his work as she tried to stand up on shaky legs, using the bed for support. She hobbled over to the small washbasin and went about cleaning herself up. Tom eventually got up to join her. He looked through the drawers and found a few candles, He set them on the chest of drawers and lit them to give a bit more light, as the last bit of sunlight was coming in the window.
"Tom, we can't have kids right? Not really feeling up for becoming a mother." Tom stared at her for a second perfectly stiff, before shaking his head decidedly. 'No way that's not possible,' he thought to himself. Hell, they didn't even have the same blood color, no fucking way.
"Awesome, I was worried we had to stop when summer comes." 'Well that was an interesting observation,' Tom noted. Doubly annoyed that he couldn't really ask questions. "You just keep getting better! No kids, brave, kind, guns, explosions, out drinks my mother, and I've never tried anything like that. Not that I have… I mean I'm not a virgin but..."
Tom had promised not to mention that he knew about Balethon, so he just stepped up against her, kissing the front of her neck. The subtle scales there were an odd arrangement; they felt almost like a fingernail, so he wasn't quite sure how much she could feel there. So he moved to the side of her neck instead.
"I don't know what that means, but I'll take it you're happy too," Jacky chuckled.
With the rules set, so to speak, of Jacky needing a lengthy cooldown between rounds, the two of them had laid down on the bed snuggling up under the sheets, as Tom got out the phone again. He showed her some more interesting things, he could think of as they cuddled; rally; a picture of a dog, which she absolutely loved; a speed boat, which took her awhile to process; and just some general city life.
Eventually, Jacky had clearly decided that was enough pictures and started making some suggestive movements under the sheets, having her own go at exploring Tom a bit more. As she grabbed his dick finding it hard once again, she rolled over on top of him, this time going for a reverse cowgirl, craning her neck around to look at him, using her tail to caress his face. Tom prepared for another round in heaven.
"I think you're called Itova, I just wanna say 'thank you,' " Tom let out, looking at the ceiling as Jacky's tail brushed against his chin.
Her confidence and ferocity had grown, as they tried more and more different positions with each round. Jacky even treated him to what she could do if she employed her wings to bounce up and down like she was possessed or something. She kept that up for all of 60 seconds before going completely cross-eyed, one of her wings locking up, sending her tumbling to the floor with a *thunk* as she lay there twitching.
After getting her sort of back on her feet, with another cooldown break and a written note about how insanely amazing that maneuver was, they carried on. On the list of scariest experiences he had ever had, Jackalope having a go at a blow job was definitely up there. She had let her tongue do most of the work, and in the end, it ended up seeming more like a type of foreplay or teasing as she luckily refrained from biting down with those long sharp teeth.
Tom didn't want to push her even further than she was already doing herself, so the pattern of Jacky starting things and Tom finishing had repeated itself. Especially when she didn't give herself enough time to cool down. He couldn't quite understand how she was overheating this quickly doing this as compared to something like sword fighting, but she was running damn near to the redline every time. He wondered if perhaps she was burning magic too? Her eyes certainly looked like it more than once.
Whatever the reason, it clearly took its toll as she eventually just couldn't continue. He had to carry her back to bed after the final clean up like some sort of Prince Charming, even if he was the one who had slain her, so to speak. Standing next to the bed with her hanging completely limp in his arms, a loud snore echoed out from his prized cargo. 'Yeah she's done,' he mused as he tucked her in under the sheets. He was damn near completely spent too, so that suited him just fine. Cuddling up next to possibly the best thing to ever happen to him, sleep came quickly as without a worry in the world he slipped into the darkness with the biggest smile on his face.