
Saph felt his hands start to run up and down her body as Maiko began testing the waters. It was quite funny how careful he was being, clearly worried about overstepping. "Two can play at that game" Saph chuckled, reaching up to fondle his cute little ears. They were quite small for a dragonette, but his eyes were bright, almost glowing a little in the night.
"Afraid someone will see us?" she questioned as the corporal started purring softly.
"You never know," he replied with a sigh, eyes closed as Saph tried to roll over onto him, getting stopped by the fact he was laying on her wing.
It took a few yanks of her wing before Maiko got it and sat up long enough for her to retract her wing. "Where were we?" Saph continued as she gently set herself down on top of him, nuzzling up close and letting her hips grind up against his as she wrapped her arms around his back. "Right. Getting dreamy."
Maiko gave no response aside from a few small grunts. 'I have him in the palm of my hand,' she mused to herself, grinding up against him a little longer. 'Okay Saph, you've been careful and he seems nice. He really likes you too, so just grow a spine and go for it,' she cursed herself. It wasn't like she didn't want what was in store. It had been years since last she had gotten any, despite her probably being able to take her pick from most single guys.
She wanted something more though. A real man, not some weak willed blabbering buffoon, and especially not an arsehole like Balethon… Maiko was witty but not evil; he was pretty but not useless; smart but not arrogant… at least not too arrogant. He was oh so fucking sweet, and he clearly had a massive crush on her.
'You won't find better than this, girl,' she concluded to herself as she pulled back off him, the corporal looking up, seeming a little unsure if something was wrong. "Now, now, just you stay there, little guy," she teased as she slowly starts undoing his belt, absolutely savoring the excitement on the dude's face.
Slowly pulling his rather nice pants down, she took a deep breath before she noticed the soft silken underwear.
"You're kidding me, right?" she chuckled, looking up at him.
"They are very comfortable," he replied with a slightly nervous sounding snicker.
"No need to be scared. I won't bite… too hard," she went, touching the soft silk and noticing that, yeah, his dick was definitely out right now. She carefully lifted his underwear away from the sensitive organ before curling her slender fingers around it ever so gently as he clearly tried not to buck at her touch.
"Hey now, don't fail me yet," Saph snickered as she slowly rubbed his shaft. "Unless you want to stay on the floor."
She leaned in closer as she felt Maiko tense, her tongue gliding over the tip of his dick. It didn't exactly taste good, but something for something, and she had plans for tonight. Having tested the waters a bit and still not gotten a face of sticky stuff, she let her tongue glide down his dick, squeezing it a little, her hand still working away on the shaft.
"No, stop," Maiko squeaked out in a rather high pitched voice. Saph looked up, confused. "Turn around and let me repay the favor," he went,  gesturing up at her. "I'll be gentle."
Saph thought about it for a second before she undid her skirt, making sure she was in full view of him. She wasn't wearing armor, and neither was he; her outfit was handmade leather clothing with some very nice pattern work on it. Kicking the regular leather skirt off to the side, she moved up to sit down on his stomach, letting him take off her panties.
He ever so slowly took them off, taking the chance to caress her lower back, ass, and thighs as she laid down on him to kick the panties to the side as well. "Your move, pretty boy," she went, turning around on top of his chest and slowly backing up against him until she felt him grasp her ass, a heavenly sensation shooting through her as he licked her slit deeply. "Oh yeah, keep doing that," she let out as she tried to resist the urge to push herself into him further, instead just settling for putting her full weight on him as she looked down at the almost beautiful shiny blue organ in front of her.
'Okay, Saph, you can… oh my gods,' she shuddered as Maiko got more adventurous, starting to probe her insides, her hips moving all by themselves as she felt his snout push up against her pussy, massaging her clit. 'No, grow a spine, Saph. He trusts you,' she cursed as she took a deep breath, leaning in over Maiko's dick, taking him into her mouth while being oh so careful not to bite him. She wrapped her tongue around him and guided his dick to the roof of her mouth as she started to let her head bob slowly, his dick sliding in and out of the coils of her tongue as she felt the poor guy squirm under her. 'Don't come in my face, please,' she silently asked, hoping that Maiko was considerate. He was certainly being considerate between her legs, as she spasmed quickly, locking Maiko's head in place and pushing him into her. 'Fucking dammit,' she cursed herself, consciously releasing him after a split second.
The guy didn't miss a beat though as he just kept going, his tongue writhing around inside her. Saph almost wished it was late enough in the year to go for real. She was not taking any chances yet though since... "Oh god," Saph squeaked out, her grip on him tightening as she was now pretty much pushing him into her with tense thighs.
His hands were firmly kneading away at her ass, one of them now moving to help his snout massage her clit. She shuddered on top of him, throwing caution to the wind as she opened up her jaws wide, trying to fit his dick further in her mouth as she felt the tip of his long, slender dick tickling the back of her throat. Her arms wrapped around his tight little ass, holding her down as her hips worked away on him, her neck straining to bob her head as far back as she could before going back down on him, again and again as he started to buck and writhe under her. It was a fantastic sensation to feel him fight so fruitlessly against her. He was gonna cum, but she didn't want to let go yet as she felt his clawed fingers digging into her ass. He thrust hips into her as she was taking a breath, causing her to choke and cough as she pulled away from him, white cum spraying down her chest. She sat up, coughing a few times before she noticed the hand tapping her thigh with increasing urgency.
"Shit, sorry," she went, lifting herself off Maiko's face. He gasped for breath, looking up between her legs at her face with a thousand yard stare.
"It's quite alriiiight," Maiko replied, sounding quite dreamy.
"Want another pinch?" Saph asked, trying not to outright laugh, letting out a wistful sigh instead.
"Nah, I'm good."
"Great, cause you haven't finished yet," Saph went as she sat back down, his eyes going wide before he vanished beneath her. "Make me proud, dude. Make me proud."
***
After the little accident, Jacky had taken Tom to get looked over, deducing, probably correctly, that Tom wasn't really in a condition to tell if he had been injured by the sort of crash. Jacky had insisted on carrying him around, nursing him like some sick child. Then again, she was definitely not sober either, nor did Tom mind not having to walk. In fact, he was more than comfortable in his current position.
Nunuk had confirmed, though, that Jarix had indeed taken the brunt of it, apparently getting a tooth knocked out, which Unkai had given to Tom simply stating, "He wanted you to have it."
It was the size of a small knife, and it actually looked like quite the cruel weapon when out on its own.
"Hey Jacky, what could we do with this thing…? I was thinking put a handle on it. Maybe give it back to Zarko."
"Nah, she would have plenty" Jacky went, opening the door to their bedroom.
"What do you mean? Jarix isn't missing any? Oh, she got like his baby teeth?"
"No, teeth grow back you dum dum… Wait, yours don't?" Jacky questioned, at the blank expression on Tom's face.
"Uhm… no… " Tom had to admit. He looked at her then, a bit curious. Come to think of it, he hadn't seen anyone with missing teeth yet… in a medieval society… 'The results are in!... and I'm a fucking idiot.'
"You serious?" Jacky went, plonking him down on the bed without any protest from him. She had been asking enough questions about if he was hurt or if he 'needed to take it easy' for Tom to guess where this was going as she started casually taking her shirt off.
"Yup. We get one set of teeth that fall out when we are kids, the next set we are stuck with for life."
"Fuck, you better take care of them… Is that why you do that brushing thing with'em so often?"
"Yeah… You do too though?" Tom replied as he got off his boots. At least they had been washed for once leading up to the festival. The usual stink foot was mostly absent.
"I pick my teeth clean and maybe brush them if needed. You know, keep them shiny," she replied, sounding like that was the most obvious thing ever.
"Right… I guess we do it to have nice white teeth too… You do have uhm *dentists*, right?"
"I'm not even gonna try to say that right now. What's that?"
"Doctor for your teeth?" Tom tried hopefully.
"Shiva has some tongs," Jacky replied with a shrug, seemingly not sure what else to say. "I could pull them out too if you want."
"Fuck me," Tom let out, leaning back on the bed.
"Happy to *-hiccup-* oblige," Jacky went, masterfully getting his pants off as Tom excitedly took off his shirt.
'It wouldn't be a party without this part,' Tom chuckled to himself, pulling a smile. "Hey Jacky, wanna try out those?" Tom went, pointing at a little box sitting on the nightstand he had put there when he and Raulf had gone to fetch the barrel for Jarix. It was a nice little box that had stored some of the silver bars purchased in the capital originally. Tom guessed they were gonna need some if they were gonna be toying with electronics. They had already used some of it in the blitz gel powercell for the workshop to combat overheating. Quite fittingly, cooling was the name of the game once again here.
"What's that?" Jacky questioned as she dropped her pants to the floor, buying Tom a bit more time to get ready and a pretty good look at her standing in her underwear, trim as could be. The room was only lit by candlelight, but all that did was lend a bit of mystery to his very own apex predator.
"A gift. Called a favor or two in these busy times. Tink and I made them. Didn't want your mother to know though, so yeah, sorry about the shitty polish."
"No, you didn't," Jacky went, opening the box and finding a set of half moon bands made of silver inside. "You made me actual jewelry! Is that silver?"
"Yup, cast silver. We had more than we needed anyway"
"You cheeky little bastard," Jacky went jumping onto the bed giving him a hug, before going back to the case and taking them out to inspect them. "You made these… what's with the little cork?" she asked curiously as she inspected one of the bands.
"They are hollow. You take the little cute cork out, fill them around two thirds with water and a little pinch of the powder in the bag that's in the box and you're good to go. If they run out just add a bit more powder," Tom replied as Jacky's eyes widened.
"They're cooling bands?!" she let out at the realization, looking at them mouth agape, looking so damn happy Tom couldn't help but snicker as he smiled wide.
"Fuck yeah they are. You think I didn't catch your little chat with Galaxer?"
"Oh, you are just the best. We have got to try these out," Jacky pulled out the cork from the one she was inspecting and went looking for her water skin. Tom scooted over on the bed to supervise as Jacky delicately started to fill them, going a bit over and pouring the excess back out.
"There we go. Now, let's just try a tiny pinch of the powder," Tom went, sprinkling it in for her. Touching the powder was an odd sensation; he had dried his hands first like he had learned the hard way, but without water it wasn't even cold, making it pretty much the only dragon based compound aside from flash powder that was actually safe to handle by hand.
The second it hit the water, though, he could see the condensation start to form on the bands. "Now in with the cork and shake," he went, taking one of them. Jacky doing the other one.
"Oh you are in for it now," Jacky went with a devious smile on her face.
"Sure about that? You've already had a long day," Tom countered, knowing full well it would be a while before he got any sleep.
"I have this," she went, taking out a glass bottle with what Tom guessed was the berry lemonade, looking very proud of herself. "It's the non alcoholic stuff though, don't worry. I think we had enough."
"Oh, you are gonna kill yourself one of these days. Also, what have you done with the real Jacky? Constraint concerning alcohol? That doesn't seem like you," Tom chuckled as he kept shaking. He didn't actually know how long he had to shake, but after a bit the water wasn't slushing anymore, likely having turned to ice.
"Maybe. Perhaps I just wanted to be able to remember this and not wake up tomorrow unsure what we did," she went with a shrug. "But I can assure you… I'm Jackalope fucking Furlong alright." She leaned in, tongue sticking out as Tom opened his mouth letting her inside. After a quick kiss she took the armbands, putting them on and admiring the silver with a genuine smile.
'Awww,' Tom thought to himself, looking up at her. 'So worth it.'
She then took him by the shoulders and pushed him back onto the bed. Going to the foot of the bed she slowly crawled up on all fours, giving Tom a predatory look like a panther stalking its prey. She kept her eyes locked on his as she slowly crawled on top of him, pushing him down as she went. She reached her destination, looking straight down at him as she laid down on top of him, going for another kiss.
'You are fucking crazy… I love it!'  Tom went to himself, wrapping his arms around her and hugging as tight as he could. It wasn't like he could hurt her anyway as she just snickered mid kiss.
The two of them writhed around for a bit as Jacky pretended to be trying to escape. Tom eventually let her pull away as she raised her crotch off his. One of her hands moving down his stomach and inside his underwear, stroking his dick and eventually going to cup his balls, starting to fondle them a little. Tom felt the sharp claws pricking him just the tiniest amount as Jacky giggled evilly, finally releasing the kiss.
"I think I caught something?" she purred as she retreated off him again, sitting down on his thighs. Pulling down his underwear, she had another little play with his already hard dick.
"Didn't I win our little race?" Tom asked, feeling like he had to. Really he just wanted to let her keep going right now.
"And you cheated!" she replied, pulling down her panties, mounting him with a determined look in her eyes. "And cheaters never prosper."
"My current position would disagree," Tom went, looking up at her. Taking an expectant breath, his hands moved up to caress her sides, feeling out her delicious curves as she took a deep breath and guided his dick inside her, the deep purring slowly starting. She was clearly savoring the feeling as always as she slowly lowered herself down onto him. Tom could tell just how much she was enjoying herself even as she closed her eyes she held the warmest smile as she writhed about on top of him. She was absolutely beautiful. She was happy, so flawed and so perfect.
It didn't take long before she began moving up and down. It was slow at first, in part thanks to the less than stellar foreplay. She just needed to get warmed up a bit more, but quickly built in intensity as she started getting wet inside. She had gotten more and more used to this over time, and while she was still as tight as Tom could ever wish for, it was rare to see any pain on her face outside the first few seconds... and that was usually down to her own impatience. The sheer sensation was also very much so helped by the impressive muscles working away inside her, all more than capable of kneading him like a stick of noodle dough. All while her built in vibrator was working over time.
It was so damn perfect. He didn't want to hurt her, even if she clearly thought the trade was worth it, but now it was just pure pleasure on her face and that predatory glare staring down at him as she opened her eyes, picking up the pace riding him cowgirl style.
Gaining in confidence, she let out some cute little moans as she leaned forward, hands resting on his chest as she kept pumping away. Tom just held her tight by the thighs and ass, feeling out the thick, smooth skin, his fingers sinking in as he started getting a little rougher. Jacky took his right hand, moving it to her crotch and her clit in particular.
"You know what to do," she went, looking down at him with a crooked smile. Tom gave her a smack on the ass in defiance, Jacky tensing a little, clearly trying not to laugh as he shook her head. "No, not that thing, the other thing."
Tom tried his best to pull off an expression like he had just understood the meaning of life, starting to rub away at her nether regions. She let out a little sigh that quickly turned into a moan as she grinded away on him for a bit before going back to bouncing with ever increasing enthusiasm. "Yeehaw!"
***
By the gods, how she had missed this. Not spreading her legs for just anyone… or even anyone at all for years did have certain down sides. Sure there were alternatives. But to do it with someone who really cared about you and made you feel special was well… special. So much more intimate. That compared with the excitement of having something breathing under her like this.  A soldier at that, who had surrendered completely to her.  She could break his neck like a twig right now as she sat on his face purring away like a crazy woman. She had him; he was hers and hers alone, and by the gods, he was doing his duty.
She couldn't resist the urge to grind just a little, trying to rub her clit on his snout as his tongue did the heavy work. He grabbed at her sides, Saph hurriedly moving his hands down to her hips and thighs where he grabbed on hard, squishing her soft flesh between his fingers. She had to fight really hard to resist the urge to start bouncing on his face, instead just letting out a snarl as she ran her fingers down his hands and arm. Her hips moved all by themselves as she put more weight on him, his grip tightening as she closed her eyes to enjoy herself. She had made him cum; now it was damn well her turn. And Maiko didn't disappoint, not slowing down much even after he had made a sticky mess.
After a while longer, Saph raised herself up a little, Maiko's tongue chasing after and tickling her lips as she rolled over onto her back. She grabbed his head to guide it back to her crotch but found it stuck. Looking over at him, she let out a laugh as the corporal struggled to get up, horns having been rammed into the ground all the way to the base of his skull.
"Whoops," Saph let out with a snicker as he finally managed to pull free, not getting far before she grabbed him, putting his head where it needed to go, the rest of his body just sorta following.
He got the hint real quick, getting to work as his hands slid up her tight stomach. She went to fondle her own ears, just looking up at the night sky, little twitches running up her body with every new discovery Maiko's tongue made. Moaning softly, she could feel the end approaching her breathing going ragged as she savored the moment, Maiko's hands growing ever rougher with her. "More!... Please," she squealed, one of her hands moving to rub herself harder than he seemingly dared, her legs swinging over his shoulders and squeezing his head.
He responded by damn near assaulting her nether regions as his hands moved to her thighs, using them like handles to steady himself with a surprisingly strong grip. As she finally started spasming, she was trying not to scream, riding the orgasm as she grabbed Maiko by the horns and rubbed his snout up against her with all her might. She thrashed about on top of him, not caring if she might break him.
When the incredible sensation finally passed and she went limp, she did feel a little ashamed, but damn, it had been worth it. As she released him from her grasp, Maiko got up and stumbled around a little, seemingly a bit stunned by how that had gone. She had to take a moment after that one herself, just looking up at the stars.
"That was different," he stated finally, making his way back over to her and laying down by her side, still a little unsteady on his feet.
"Yeah… You definitely get to sleep in the bed after that one," Saph replied after having caught her breath, still just looking up at the heavens.
"Happy to be of service," the corporal went, sounding very pleased with himself.
"Oh, you will serve," Saph went as she rolled over onto her side, wrapping her arms around him and holding her little prize tight. "We should get cleaned up and back inside," she went reluctantly after a few minutes of them just laying there.
"Well I have to test out this marvelous bed, now don't I?"
***
"You doing okay?" Tom questioned after the two of them taken a quick breather after the first round, Tom playing the little spoon as they lay on the bed in the candlelit room.
"Can I fly?" Jacky questioned rhetorically as she started to stir again.
"I seem to remember something about that being the case," Tom went, moving first, Jacky looking up at him. "Better get those bands back on."
"Yes, sir," Jacky went in an excited tone as she reached for the armbands currently laying on the nightstand. "Shit, they are cold."
"Better get warm then," Tom replied. He didn't even let her get them on before he pulled her up by the hips, getting her up on her knees ass pointing upwards as she continued to fiddle with the armbands, though she glanced back at him with a coy smile, swinging her hips side to side a little. This was definitely his favorite position. People may call him basic, but they didn't have both wings and horns to hang on to. She was basically built for doggy. Oh, that and her hips also made excellent handles, of course. He really needed more hands for this actually. A good spank or two wasn't out of the question either after all.
"Okay then, do you--- eeep," she squeaked as Tom thrust into her, grabbing her by the wings for now. Pulling back hard, he lifted her torso off the bed. He had learned mainly through her showing off just how strong her wings actually were, outdoing both her arms and legs for sheer power. Tom had still considered it cheating when she used her wing claws to do pull ups rather than her arms for training, but it had certainly given him ideas.
Being held off the bed, she stretched her arms out ahead, snarling a little, wrapping her tail around his shoulder. He started humping away in earnest, pulling himself into her as her breathing started to quicken. Her hands eventually found purchase on the wall, claws trying to dig into the stone.
"Having fun?" Tom joked as he savored the sound of Jacky groaning as her claws scraped away at the stone.
"Oh fuck the hell. YES!" Jacky let out, Tom thrusting deep into her as she gripped him tight like a vice, his hips smacking against the soft cushion of her ass again and again. It was just as awesome as always, but now he might not even have to worry about her overheating and hurting herself. Though a part of him still hoped that even with her new cooling upgrade he could still drive her into submission eventually.
She was certainly holding up better than normally, still keeping her composure after nearly a minute of hard pounding, even as she let out a steady stream of little squeaks and moans as she just let him have his way with her. Tom gave her a hard spank as she started properly panting for air. Being more than a touch drunk did have its advantages in the endurance department, but there was no reason for it to be over too soon as he felt the all too familiar sensation approaching, slowing down until he eventually slid out of her.
"Best gift I ever got you," Tom laughed leaning in over her back, giving the two of them some time to catch their breath. He laid down on the panting woman who was still leaning on the wall, her back giving a little under the added weight.
"Couldn't agree more," Jacky got out after her panting slowed down a little. "You are on fire today."
"Oh yeah? Well, you aren't for once. You're still only a bit warm to the touch," Tom replied with genuine excitement.
"I know. I love it! Just remind me to take them off when we are done. I think that could be very bad."
"You're probably right," Tom agreed, letting his hands wander to her head, going to rub her ears like he had learned she liked so much. He had heard ears were technically an erogenous zone in humans, but they were apparently even more so for dragonettes. That, and they were so large and floppy, how could you not play with them.
Jacky kept purring, leaning her head back towards him, clearly enjoying the feeling, Tom happily obliged, also caressing her neck as he leaned in to kiss it from behind, his feet leaving the ground so he could reach.
"You take the term… riding… quite literally" Jacky got out between pants, chuckling weakly.
"Oh shush, you know you like being the strong one," Tom replied, giving her head a playful slap.
"I am the… Forget it," she went, turning her head around to bump her snout against his cheek, Tom giving her snoot a little boop, both of them giggling together, looking and sounding like a proper pair of drunken idiots. Jacky's breathing slowly came back under control. "Now come on, I know what you want next. Just do it."
"As you wish, my lady."
"Like hell I'm a noble. You take that back," Jacky laughed out as they both moved a bit further back on the bed, Jacky burying her head in the pillow as Tom pushed down on her lower back, sliding back into her as her back arched down. "Come on, big boy, show me what you got."
'For fuck's sake, Jacky,' Tom mused to himself as he started slowly thrusting before slamming home hard, getting a deep moan in reply as he set about getting the submission he wanted.
***
Harder daddy harder... No I'll stop but yeah, you people have been shouting for another pancake for a while so here you go. I hope you liked it.
Until next time I'll catch you lot later. Baii.